[docs] New Replication Guide (#5823)
hashicorp/consul: website/source/docs/guides/acl-replication.md

---
name: 'ACL Replication for Multiple Datacenters'
content_length: 15
id: acl-replication
layout: content_layout
products_used:
  - Consul

> description: You can configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple datacenters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple datacenters.
```

---

You can configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple

> datacenters. This provides central configuration of security policies in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
datacenters. This configures security policies in the
```

> primary datacenter and failover for the secondary datacenters. If the primary

Reviewer: ```suggestion
primary datacenter that can failover to secondary datacenters. If the primary
```

datacenter goes offline, the secondary datacenters will still have the security
policies in place. 

> ~> Note, each datacenter will need to have ACLs enabled, the process is outlined in the [Securing Consul with ACLs

Reviewer: We should probably label these as prerequisites and not a note (note formatting is fine, but it would be good to have them as a bulleted list if that's possible inside the box.

Author: I'll update the formatting.

guide](/consul/security-networking/production-acls). This guide includes the additional ACL replication configuration for the Consul
agents not covered in the Securing Consul with ACL guide. Additionally,
[Basic Federation with WAN Gossip](/consul/security-networking/datacenters) is required. 

In this guide, you will setup ACL replication. This is a multi-step process
that includes:

- Setting the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the primary datacenter.  
- Creating the replication token.  
- Configuring the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the secondary datacenter.  
- Enabling token replication on the servers in the secondary datacenter.  
- Applying the replication token to all the servers in the secondary datacenter. 

This guide is intended to be completed during the initial ACL bootstrapping
process. 

-> After ACLs are enabled you must have a privileged token to complete any
operation on either datacenter. You can use the initial
`bootstrap` token as your privileged token.

## Configure the Primary Datacenter

> ~> Note, if your primary datacenter uses the default `datacenter` name of

Reviewer: We should probably mention this as one of the prerequisites from the previous section unless it's required for properly WAN joining datacenters, in which case maybe we don't need to mention it at all?

Author: I had initially put this callout here since it's information you should know during the configuration process. Also its more for an edge case.

---
name: 'ACL Replication for Multiple Datacenters'
content_length: 15
id: acl-replication
layout: content_layout
products_used:
  - Consul
description: Configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple datacenters.
---

You can configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple
datacenters. This provides central configuration of security policies in the
primary datacenter and failover for the secondary datacenters. If the primary
datacenter goes offline, the secondary datacenters will still have the security
policies in place. 

### Prerequisites

Before starting this guide, each datacenter will need to have ACLs enabled, the process is outlined in the [Securing Consul with ACLs
guide](/consul/security-networking/production-acls). This guide includes the additional ACL replication configuration for the Consul
agents not covered in the Securing Consul with ACL guide. 

Additionally,
[Basic Federation with WAN Gossip](/consul/security-networking/datacenters) is required. 

> ### Introduction 

Author: ```suggestion
## Introduction 
```

In this guide, you will setup ACL replication. This is a multi-step process
that includes:

- Setting the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the primary datacenter.  
- Creating the replication token.  
- Configuring the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the secondary datacenter.  
- Enabling token replication on the servers in the secondary datacenter.  
- Applying the replication token to all the servers in the secondary datacenter. 

> This guide is intended to be completed during the initial ACL bootstrapping

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should complete this guide during the initial ACL bootstrapping
```

process. 

-> After ACLs are enabled you must have a privileged token to complete any
operation on either datacenter. You can use the initial
`bootstrap` token as your privileged token.

## Configure the Primary Datacenter

~> Note, if your primary datacenter uses the default `datacenter` name of
`dc1`, you must set a different `datacenter` parameter on each secondary datacenter.
Otherwise, both datacenters will be named `dc1` and there will be conflicts.

### Consul Servers and Clients

> You should explicitly set the  `primary_datacenter` parameter on all servers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should explicitly set the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all servers
```

and clients, even though replication is enabled by default on the primary
datacenter. Your agent configuration should be similar to the example below.  

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "primary_dc", 
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc",
"acl": { 
  "enabled": true, 
  "default_policy": "deny", 
  "down_policy": "extend-cache",
  "enable_token_persistence": true 
  } 
} 
```

The `primary_datacenter`
[parameter](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/options.html#primary_datacenter)

> sets the primary datacenter to have authority for all ACL information. It is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sets the primary datacenter to have authority for all ACL information. You will also need
```

> sets the primary datacenter to have authority for all ACL information. It is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sets the primary datacenter to have authority for all ACL information. The reason
```

> important to also set this on the clients, so that the clients can forward API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to set this on the clients, so that the clients can forward API
```

> important to also set this on the clients, so that the clients can forward API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to also set this on the clients is so that the clients can forward API
```

requests to the servers. 

Finally, start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
```

Complete this process on all agents. If you are configuring ACLs for the

> first time, you will also need to [compelete the bootstrapping process](/consul/security-networking/production-acls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
first time, you will also need to [compelete the bootstrapping process](/consul/security-networking/production-acls) now.
```

## Create the Replication Token for ACL Management

> Next, create the replication token for managing ACLs. The token should be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, create the replication token for managing ACLs
```

> created with the following privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the following privileges.
```

  intentions = "read" 
} 
```

Now that you have the ACL rules defined, create a policy with those rules. 

```sh 
$ consul acl policy create -name replication -rules @replication-policy.hcl 
ID:           240f1d01-6517-78d3-ec32-1d237f92ab58
Name:         replication 
Description: Datacenters: 
Rules: acl = "write"

operator = "read"

service_prefix "" { policy = "read" intentions = "read" } 
```

Finally, use your newly created policy to create the replication token.

```sh 
$ consul acl token create description "replication token" -policy-name replication 
AccessorID:   67d55dc1-b667-1835-42ab-64658d64a2ff 
SecretID:     fc48e84d-3f4d-3646-4b6a-2bff7c4aaffb 
Description:  replication token 
Local:        false
Create Time:  2019-05-09 18:34:23.288392523 +0000 UTC 
Policies: 
  240f1d01-6517-78d3-ec32-1d237f92ab58 - replication 
```

## Enable ACL Replication on the Secondary Datacenter

Once you have configured the primary datacenter and created the replication
token, you can setup the secondary datacenter. 

-> Note, your initial `bootstrap` token can be used for the necessary
privileges to complete any action on the secondary servers. 

### Configure the Servers 

> You will need to set the `primary_datacenter` parameter to the name of your

Reviewer: Is this on all the servers?

Author: Yes!

primary datacenter and `enable_token_replication` to true.  

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "dc_secondary", 
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc", 
"acl": { 
  "enabled": true, 
  "default_policy": "deny", 
  "down_policy": "extend-cache", 
  "enable_token_persistence": true,
  "enable_token_replication": true
  } 
} 
```

Now you can start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
``` 

### Apply the Replication Token to the Servers

Finally, apply the replication token to all the servers using the CLI. 

```sh 
$ consul acl set-agent-token replication <token> 
ACL token "replication" set successfully 
```

Once token replication has been enabled, you will also be able to create
datacenter local tokens.

Repeat this process on all servers. If you are configuring ACLs for the
first time, you will also need to [set the agent token](/consul/security-networking/production-acls#add-the-token-to-the-agent).

> Note, the clients do not need the replication token.

Reviewer: Should this be a Note-style call out?

Author: I try to reserve the call outs for really important information. If you applied or tried to apply the replication token to the client it shouldn't be detrimental to the cluster.

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "dc_secondary", 
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc",
"acl": { 
  "enabled": true, 
  "default_policy": "deny", 
  "down_policy": "extend-cache", 
  "enable_token_persistence": true, 
  "enable_token_replication": true 
  } 
} 
```

Now you can start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
``` 

Repeat this process on all clients. If you are configuring ACLs for the
first time, you will also need to [set the agent token](/consul/security-networking/production-acls#add-the-token-to-the-agent). 

## Check Replication 

Now that you have set up ACL replication, you can use the [HTTP API](https://www.consul.io/api/acl/acl.html#check-acl-replication) to check
the configuration.

```sh 
$ curl http://localhost:8500/v1/acl/replication?pretty
{
  "Enabled":true,
  "Running":true,
  "SourceDatacenter":"primary_dc",
  "ReplicationType":"tokens",
  "ReplicatedIndex":19,
  "ReplicatedTokenIndex":22,
  "LastSuccess":"2019-05-09T18:54:09Z",
  "LastError":"0001-01-01T00:00:00Z"
}
```

Notice, the "ReplicationType" should be "tokens". This means tokens, policies,
and roles are being replicated. 

## Summary

> In this guide you setup token replication on multiple datacenters. This process can be completed on an existing datacenters, with minimal 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide you setup token replication on multiple datacenters. You can complete this process on an existing datacenter, with minimal 
```

---

> name: 'ACL Replication for Multiple Datacenters '

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
name: 'ACL Replication for Multiple Datacenters'
```

content_length: 15
id: acl-replication
layout: content_layout
products_used:
  - Consul
description: You can configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple datacenters.
---

You can configure tokens, policies, and roles to work across multiple

> datacenters. This provides central configuration of security policies in the

Reviewer 2: Do we want to use the loaded phrase "central configuration" here given the terms used to describe the L7 stuff?

Reviewer 2: Also not sure if "security policies" is the right term to use given that we are already talking about ACL Policies in the preceding sentence.

Author: What about "Replicating ACL components across multiple datacenters enables failover if one of them becomes unavailable."

primary datacenter and failover for the secondary datacenters. If the primary
datacenter goes offline, the secondary datacenters will still have the security
policies in place. 

Note, each datacenter should have ACLs enabled and you need to complete the
bootstrapping process outlined in the [Securing Consul with ACLs
guide](/consul/security-networking/production-acls) on the primary datacenter.
This guide includes the additional ACL replication configuration for the Consul
agents. 

In this guide, you will setup ACL replication. this is a multi-step process
that includes:

> Setting the `primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the primary

Reviewer 2: bullet list?

Author: Yes! It must have lost formatting when I enforced wrapping.

datacenter.  Creating the replication token.  Configuring the
`primary_datacenter` parameter on all Consul agents in the secondary
datacenter.  Enabling token replication on the servers in the secondary
datacenter.  Applying the replication token to all the servers in the secondary
datacenter. 

This guide is intended to be completed during the initial ACL bootstrapping
process. 

-> After ACLs are enabled you must have a privileged token to complete any
operation on either datacenter. The privileged token can be the initial
`bootstrap` token. 

## Configure the Primary Datacenter

~> Note, if your primary datacenter uses the default `datacenter` name of

> `dc1`, you must set the `datacenter` parameter on the secondary datacenter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`dc1`, you must set a different `datacenter` parameter on the secondary datacenter.
```

> Otherwise, both datacenters will be named `dc1` and there will be conflicts.

Reviewer 2: I think we should make wan-joining the datacenters together a pre-guide to this guide. That's the primary place the `datacenter` name is used, and you'll be issuing wan joining commands (or using the equivalent in consul configs). It might be weird to inject a bunch of content about network topology/connectivity setup into the guide about configuring ACLs.

Reviewer 3: This does seem like a good idea. This guide should probably assume you know how to join datacenters and know how to enable ACLs in a single DC. This guide then is how to combine both concepts.

Author: Agreed, it is out of place in this guide. I will remove the parameter and update guide.

### Consul Servers and Clients

You should explicitly set the  `primary_datacenter` parameter on all servers

> and clients, even though, replication is enabled by default on the primary

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and clients even though replication is enabled by default on the primary
```

> and clients, even though, replication is enabled by default on the primary

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and clients, even though, replication is not used within the primary
```

datacenter. Your agent configuration should be similar to the example below.  

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "primary_dc", 
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc",
"acl": { 
  "enabled": true, 
  "default_policy": "deny", 
  "down_policy": "extend-cache",
  "enable_token_persistence": true 
  } 
} 
```

The `primary_datacenter`
[parameter](https://www.consul.io/docs/agent/options.html#primary_datacenter)
sets the primary datacenter to have authority for all ACL information. It is
important to also set this on the clients, so that the clients can forward API
requests to the servers. 

Finally, start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
```

Complete this process on all agents. 

## Create the Replication Token for ACL Management

Next create the replication token for managing ACLs. The token should be
created with the following privileges:

> acl = "write" which will allow you to replicate tokens.  operator = "read" for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`acl = "write"` which will allow you to replicate tokens.  `operator = "read"` for
```

Reviewer 2: It might be easier to follow if the sentences of this paragraph were broken up and added as comments to the HCL blob below instead?

Author: This was also supposed to be a bulleted list.

replicating proxy-default configuration entries.  service_prefix, policy =
"read" and intentions = "read" for replicating service-default configuration
entries, CA, and intention data. 

```hcl 
acl = "write"

operator = "read"

service_prefix "" { 
	policy = "read" 
	intentions = "read" 
} 
```

> Now that you have the ACL rules defined, create a policy. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you have the ACL rules defined, create a policy with those rules. 
```

```sh 

> $ consul acl policy create -name replication -rules

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ consul acl policy create -name replication -rules \
```

Reviewer 2: or just delete the newline

Author: I prefer to have these types of commands on a single line.

@replication-policy.hcl 
ID:           240f1d01-6517-78d3-ec32-1d237f92ab58
Name:         replication 
Description: Datacenters: 
Rules: acl = "write"

operator = "read"

service_prefix "" { policy = "read" intentions = "read" } 
```

Finally, use your newly created policy to create the replication token.

```sh 

> $ consul acl token create description "replication token" -policy-name

Reviewer 2: same thing as above. Either add a line continuation character or delete the newline

replication 
AccessorID:   67d55dc1-b667-1835-42ab-64658d64a2ff 
SecretID:     fc48e84d-3f4d-3646-4b6a-2bff7c4aaffb 
Description:  replication token 
Local:        false
Create Time:  2019-05-09 18:34:23.288392523 +0000 UTC 
Policies: 
  240f1d01-6517-78d3-ec32-1d237f92ab58 - replication 
```

## Enable ACL Replication on the Secondary Datacenter

Once you have configured the primary datacenter and created the replication
token, you can setup the secondary datacenter. 

### Configure the Servers 

You will need to set the `primary_datacenter` parameter to the name of your

> primary datacenter, `enable_token_replication` to true, and `retry_join_wan` to

Reviewer 3: If we do move the multi-dc setup into its own guide then we probably don't need to specify `retry_join_wan` here.

Author: Done!

the primary datacenters server's addresses. By configuring the retry join

> parameter for wan gossip, you are also setting up [basic

Reviewer 2: As mentioned earlier, perhaps move this up as a precondition of the guide?

Author: Done.

federation](/consul/security-networking/datacenters). 

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "dc_secondary", 
"retry_join_wan": ["<address_here>"],
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc", 
"acl": { 
	"enabled": true, 
	"default_policy": "deny", 
	"down_policy": "extend-cache", 
	"enable_token_persistence": true,

>     "enable_token_replication": true, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "enable_token_replication": true
```

    } 
} 
```

Now you can start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
``` 

> To complete any further

Reviewer 3: The section about setting the replication token should probably be moved up here. Setting it up can be done prior to setting an agent token and goes a bit more with the topic of configuring the servers for replication.

Author: Agreed. I wanted to add all the steps necessary to get the agents working, just in case someone is doing this the first time. However, it does distract from the point. Instead I'm going to call it out as a note and link back to the other guide.

actions, the servers will need agent tokens. You can create server specific
tokens on your primary datacenter and then set the token on the server.  

```sh

> $ consul acl set-agent-token <token here> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ consul acl set-agent-token agent <token here> 
```

ACL token "agent" set successfully
``` 
-> Note, your initial bootstrap token can be used for the necessary
privileges to complete any action on the secondary servers. 

Repeat this process on all servers. 

### Configure the Clients

For the clients, you will need to set the `primary_datacenter` parameter to the
name of your primary datacenter and `enable_token_replication` to true.

```json 
{ 
"datacenter": "dc_secondary", 
"primary_datacenter": "primary_dc",
"acl": { 
	"enabled": true, 
	"default_policy": "deny", 
	"down_policy": "extend-cache", 
	"enable_token_persistence": true, 

>     "enable_token_replication": true, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "enable_token_replication": true
```

    } 
} 
```

Now you can start the agent.

```sh 
$ consul agent -config-file=server.json 
``` 

Repeat this process on all
clients. 

### Apply the Replication Token to the Servers

Finally, apply the replication token to all the servers using the CLI. 

```sh 
$ consul acl set-agent-token replication <token> 
ACL token "replication" set successfully 
```

Once token replication has been enabled, you will also be able to create
datacenter local tokens.

Note, the clients do not need the replication token. 

## Check Replication 

Now that you have set up ACL replication, you can use the [HTTP API] to check
the configuration.

```sh 

> $ curl http://localhost:8500/v1/acl/replication

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ curl http://localhost:8500/v1/acl/replication?pretty
```

Adding the `?pretty` will cause our API to return prettyfied responses and should more closely match the output below.
